# TSC Meeting - 11/12/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb
* Guthrie [Amazon]
* Joe Bryand [O3DF]
* JT [SCB-PasOS]
* lsemp3d
* Mike S. [Carbonated]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Sergio Rojas
* Shauna [genome studios]
* Sid_moudgil [Amazon]
* Steve P [amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Release - Joe
point release went well.


### Discussion - Steve
physx4 vs physx5: physx4 is game based 5 is simulation based. 5 has a few more features more accurate. 4 faster. 4 runs on consoles, 5 does not. 
test to make sure our assumptyions are correct.
maybe rename the templates from default to defaultgame.
put more description about phjysx45 use in the readme of the template for the projects.
steve will make the issue.
joe will follow up with nvidia directly.

### Discussion - Joe
ipv6: do we need it?
what customer needs it?
should be fairly easy to implement in the engine.
tooling would need to be updated.
ui and registry entries that only looking for ipv4 would need to be updated.
should we put this on the roadmap?
sin/network controls.

### Discussion - Joe
trackview is buggy, missing features.
we have the oppertunity for 2 sdes from techround to work on it.
customers are asking for it.
seems like a worthy endevor.
brian budge at meta is the contact.
sig/content controls, current chair Luis Sempie

### Discussion - Colin
ad/hoc:
issues more than a year old get rid of them
core elections end next week
aws use in the engine, make sure it is said that aws is not us, we are neutral 3rd party, they are a partner with an implementation.
purhaps rebroadcast for other trime zones.


