# TSC Meeting - 9/09/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Hellaenergy (Nick) [Red Hat]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* jayrulez
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Matteo [Loharangrin]
* null
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* colinb [APMG]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Joe - AMA September 10 wednesday coming up
* Send complicated topics ahead of time, so that Joe can do research.
* Please spread the word to everyone and anyone.  it will be recorded.

### Anouncement - Mike - Github AR progress
* github AR progress is getting close, we need a formal a plan for switch over
* should cover the switch over, decomissioning of the jenkins fleet
* Joe: We should time to be after the release
* Some blockers still remain: Gradle problems for Android: suggestion to go to latest, could break, but its already broken.

### Discussion - Current State of Particle System
* Working
* Joe: Do we have a project for this?
* JT: I beleive the PR has a level.
* Colin: Not sure it does.
* Joe: We need a level to showcase the particle system
* Colin: We could use the lumberyard paricle showcase level, the one we used for PopcornFX?
* Joe: Sid, do you have access to that?
* Sid: Its been a long time... but should be just a simple level. We could potentially make a new one, or modify an existing one. Atom viewer may have something. MPS used PopcornFX, it was always breaking, we could update MPS but that is a big ask.
* Null: Yeah the FX in MPS was breaking a lot and updating it would be a lift.
* Joe: We need something, we should ask the community. Do we have any pictures or videos for docs and promotion?
* Jan: I posted some quick captures in the chat.
  

