# TSC Meeting - 11/26/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Nick_l
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* null [meta]
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Steve P. [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Object JSON Scema Feature Request
* https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues/17505
* Current state of what the o3de object system is in and where we need it to be.
* I'd like to get the work done before I really start implementing the consoles.
* This stuff hasn't been seen since the restricted stuff from lumberyard, it really needs an overhaul
* More recent changes that have gone into the system, a lot of them were really good, some were really bad.
* Those need to be fixed, its all layed out in this issue.
* Initial document for the issues that are coming.  We can start discussing this and start making issues from this issue.

### Announcement - Please review the UI/UX documents (JT-SCBGameDesign)
* https://github.com/o3de/sig-ui-ux
* Please review this repo as we make new features.

### Discussion - 

