# TSC meeting - 2025-11-18

**Facilitator:** byrcolin
**Notes taker:** byrcolin

Notes:
Joe: maybe moving to trello for the roadmap. sigs update your roadmap for 2026.
JT: presence at the scale conference? jt has a proposal. links in tsc chat. looking for content/talks etc.
JT: the first o3de user group meeting on the 20th
JT: would like people have more onboarding materials for people
Joe: carbonated releasing there game soon. promotional on the site to be coordinated.
Colin,joe,reece: Steam/Valve machine release annouced in 2026. request for hardware, joe will. Joe talked to wayland engineers they would be happy to help.

## Postponed due to time
