# TSC meeting - 2025-11-11

**Facilitator:** byrcolin
**Notes taker:** byrcolin

## TSC Updates

sig release : the next point release is being planned
	a couple bug fixes
	android fixes
	the main fix is reverting the script canvas changes, users are having problems: for debugging prposes the editor must in its own process, that is not finished so revert for now.

there is a issue with diffuse probe grib not contributed yet. and there are some other issues.

the git requirement is removed?

fresh install issues are being tested: cmake cant find the compiler, seems to be related to visual studio community.

thinking about early december, the 9th is being considered, waiting for confirmation

joe is out nov30-dec6 for a simulation conference.

issues for the group:
Thank you from joe to member for taking point on the release

Mateo: https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/76/views/2 link to the release issues

Joe: things like to get done in 2026 to be published/roadmap, wants must haves, need by weds 19th

Mateo: Companies looking for o3de 
pain points of coding: interpretted c++ https://discord.com/channels/805939474655346758/816045972865155082/1437831342980071616
pain of lua
c# is requested by many companies
a company has a c#, joe trying to get them to release it, they might not, they want to monitize it, told him to look at overlo3de
overlo3de has a new vendor reece and his sound gem

joe: nvidia dependent shaders need to be rebuilt but cant sign nda
sid: maybe we can do something
joe: the nvidia solution is not open, maybe get amd stuff in which is open source... wants to remove black box
use private repo with limited access, linux foundation can not do it.
sid: going to start a thread on it
## Postponed due to time
