# TSC Meeting - 12/02/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Colinb[apmg]
* Hellaenergy (nick) [Red Hat]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Matteo [Loherangrin]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_L
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Steve P. [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Hellaenergy (Nick) - Sig Release
* We will be executing the point release in 1 week unless there is something critical that needs to be pushed
  in and postpone it.  right now it looks like its on track.
* Nick (RedHat) Is it not crashing enough?  How much time would we want to spend?
* (Not worth the time to fix)
* Maybe its worth mentioning that its status in the release notes.  Caveats, etc, those that may run into it.
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai] - we will also release o3de-extras point release, code is not cherry-picked but will do it
  tomorrow.  We have one small fix that is an unused variable that is causing issues for the release build.
* We have a temporary fix for that, so we can use the camera sensor in our simulations.  I'll prepare the canonical
  and o3de-extras repository.
* Jan Hanca - Sig-release - matteo could you please check if a scheduled date is ready for the next release.
* Matteo - next is in april, start of april, inside roadmap, *tenative*, date for second major release is in october.
  Date is for release date and cutoff

### Discussion - 
