# TSC Meeting - 1/14/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Adam Dabrowski
* colinb[APMG]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Naomi Washington
* Nick_L
* Reece H [DrogonMar]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Shauna [Genome Studios]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Naomi Washington
* Tomorrow is a connect meeting - 8am tomorrow
* Joe presenting 2024 stats and then roadmap for 2025 (two halves)

### Discussion - Lyshine and the Slice System
* Tech debt Anchors - Lyshine needs to be moved into the prefab system.
* Nick: Perhaps similar to Landscape Canvas, where the entities and components are on normal
  entities in the world, but the UiCanvas Editor can still edit them - but instead of by saving custom prefab files, it can just modify the entities in the world, change their properties, etc.
* Maybe a way to onboard new people, writing the RFC, etc?

### Discussion - JT
* Wikipedia presence for the O3DE and other engines is really bad
* I'm thinking of organizing a group to edit and update the wikipedia article
* Paid or affiliated authors cannot modify wikipedia (against self-editing), but there are community members
  that can.  
* We may need a community voice channnel or some other place for community that is less structured.
* Naomi - we did a community channel thing, and got rid of it since it was never used... but if all you're looking for is a voice community channel, I can easily create one.

