# TSC Meeting - 4/8/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Matteo [Loherangrin]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_l
* null [meta]
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Shauna [Genome Studios]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Naomi Washington
* Reminder - April Connect Meeting tomorrow 8am PST
* Speaker is Matteo [Loherangrin]

### Announcement - Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* A company that is wanting to port from Lumberyard to O3DE, and so is giving a brief callout to that,
  to see if anyone is interested in planning for that.  I will talk to Carbonated and see if I can get any
  of the paperwork that was generated to plan for that.
* Moba style game (networking)
* null:  If you need some advice, rope me in definitely.

### Discussion - colinb [APMG] - Cleanup of TSC issues
* Let's take a pass and close.
* JT [SCB_GameDesign] - As this project grows, we will get more 3rd party apps that are standalone.
* Custom repos from community - is there a way to include repos that are remote "officially" but not officially
  maintained by O3DF.  Canonical vs non-canonical.  
* Joe:  What we're struggling with for non-canonical, O3DF will not be putting its backing behind, we don't have the resources
  to test these, you're trusting the 3rd party.  How do we make that clear to the user, etc.
* colinb: Currently the plan there is that the Project Mangaer will handle the UI of it and add remote repos via the PM, but the
  current idea, is the list of curated / uncurated repos, live file thats downloaded.   The "Uncurated list" which we have nothing
  to do with, and anyone can add something to that via an issue, which requires approval.  
* Joe: As long as there's some sort of approval.
* Joe: To talk to the moderators about it, and see what they think.
* colinb: The second thing that would be on that page would be the curated list, formalization of process, how things get on to the curated list, etc.  Joe needs to be the final approver.
* Joe: Cesium for exmaple, could go into curated list directly, known quantity, paid for by O3DF, cesium is a reputable company.  We'll get this written down and figured out.  Certain cases for larger companies.  If they create plugins for Azure (MSFT), and it be an issue that joe would approve.
* JT [SCB_GameDesign] - you could label community developers more clearly.
* Gem version control exists.

### Discussion - Steve P - Who Owns animation?
* Nobody is actively working on animation, but Sig-Content "owns it"
* Joe:  Ran into a previous animation engineer, we cannot afford to currently contract him to work on it.
* Steve P: It used to fall under sig-simulation, it was a bit of a confusion
* Joe:  It was never under sig-simulation, but sig-content had so many other things to handle.  Animation could be
  its own sig, its so huge.  I did have about 6 weeks ago, maybe JT mentioned that some people are interested in helping
  us out in animation.  Is that correct, JT?
* JT: Yes
* Joe:  We should probably persue that harder.  I can't talk to say who it is, but there is a company that is investing some
  resources into the animation system for their own needs and are willing to pull that back up into the engine (contribute).
* Joe: Please talk to your people and see if you can get any definitives.
* JT:  I'll look at the code and get some bearings on it.

### Discussion - Joe Bryant - User : Softmance - Company in ireland
* They have a working MOBA game, 3v3 or 5v5 but they want to move to o3de, LY is no longer supported by amazon
* They are the same kind of thing we've done with other companies in the past - see if I can get some permission
  to get the planning doc from Amazon and were moveing one company over from LY to O3DE.  
* THis one is windows only, and I'll have them talk to you (null for networking).
* They will have a lot of questions around graphics.  They were using 1.28, Atom should not be as big an issue.
* They were asking me quite a bit about planning and O3DE, that effort was run by Amazon, and it was an extremely involved
  process.
* Joe:  I can get you (nick), null, maybe JT, if you're interested, get them into the conversation and meeting, anyone
  who can contribute tech resources and knowhow to understand the full scope of wat they're trying to do and what we can do
  to help support them moving over from Lumberyard to O3DE.






