# TSC Meeting - 03/11/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* lsemp3d
* Naomi Washington[LF]
* Nick_l
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Joe
* Tomorrow's connect meeting, Joe will be covering a lot about the point release, upcoming release (2505) and
  just the insane download numbers, just general plan for things going forward.

### Discussion 3p - Fetchcontent
* (we had a discussion about 3p and fetch content.  Nick essentially summarized https://github.com/o3de/o3de/wiki/O3DE-3p-Package-System-vs-FetchContent-vs-ExternalProject-investigation ) for about 30-45 minutes.
* We will go for include-in-installer approach to SMALL LIBRARIES. Not large ones.

### Discussion - 
https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/18672 in pr?
* put it in the stabilization branch.

