# TSC Meeting - 04/01/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Adam Dabrowski
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* lsemp3d
* Matteo [Loherangrin]
* Michal Pelka [Robotec.AI]
* Mike Chang [Amazon]
* Nick_L
* null [meta]
* Shauna [Genome Studios]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]

## Meeting Notes

Agenda Page was created by lsemp3d and added to by amzn-changml
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/146

### Announcements
* JT - User Generated Gamejam discord serve rhas been launched for Multiplayer Sample
* We will launch it soon and make a content game jam for Multiplayer Sample.
* Seperate Discord Server - I'll work with everyone to get information back to this server.  Its a good
  community outreach as well.

* JT - USD Community - We're moving forward on a USD version of the Odie mascot.  We'll 
  let them see what we're doing soon!

* Adam - Simulation Interfaces are standard for ROS2 base interfaces is out!  V1 is already merged
  and the standard will be implemented.  ISAAC sim will be implementing it with the May Release, 
  our team is implementing it for our engine.  It will cause some immediate changes, but mostly
  focused around 2 new gems for O3DE.  It was very interesting for robotics community.
* Joe - First freeze happens mid april, but given the importance of what you're doing, I am okay
  with providing an exception after that.
* We are timing with the release.  They want to time the gem with release.

### Agenda Items

#### Stale Pull Requests - lsemp3d
> "We have 90 stale PRs out of 125 total PRs, are we comfortable doing a light audit and closing the stale ones?"
* We should check the status, if there's anything super easy to get over the finish line. 

#### Bug Bounty Programs
> "Is there any plan or desire (and budget) to establish a bug bounty program? Other open source projects have this, see MonoGame Bounties"
* Joe: We just don't have the finances to be able to offer bounties.
* JT: Make sure we look at the downside of bounties, they backfired on projects.

#### Github Actions AR
* Its ready!  Please review https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/18605
  * Depends on https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/18784
  * Depends on https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/18783

### Discussion
* Joe: I'm building a feature list for this release.  I will need the sig chairs and co-chairs to let me know
  what the highlights are for their particular sig for this release.  Get me that info in the next 2 weeks. Around the 15th.

* Joe: Donations are live.  Linux Foundation still wants to figure out how to talk about it, we are the first project in LF
  to have a donate button like that.  This is very much a test case for LF.

* Joe: I've asked the moderators to head up a discord reorg.  We talked about it a couple tsc meetings ago, everyone agreed.
  Mods are putting together a plan for what to remove, reorg, add.  The focus is on new users.
  We will not be affecting the sig section at all, it will stay the same.

* Joe: First quarterly news letter went out last night.  We can get you added to the mailing list.  Once a quarter, its a recap
  about whats going on.  If you have feedback on the newsletter, please give it to us.  Note that May our marketing person is
  the primary dev on the newsletter.  She was the person who put everything together.
* Nick: can we get the announcements channel to have a copy of the newsletter?
* Joe: I'll talk to May about that.

