# TSC Meeting - 10/28/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Nick_L
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Shauna [Genome Studios]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazn]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - none

### Discussion - Qt6 stuff - Reece H. 
* https://discord.com/channels/805939474655346758/1420144310908616725
* Ideally we move to a less forked qt.

### Discussion - Heirarchial Activation Handling
* https://discord.com/channels/805939474655346758/1426268617124614175

