# TSC Meeting - 8/12/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* hellaenergy (Nick) [Red Hat]
* Jan Hanca
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Luis
* Matteo [Loherangrin]
* Nick_L
* null
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P. [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes 

### Announcement - Matteo 
* Stabilization has begun
* Official calendar coming - preview in #sig-release channel
* We are trying to release the stable version before ROSCON.  First half of october.

### Announcement - Matteo
* As Sig-release we are trying to work in order to propose a new plan for
  the next releases, in order to achieve a more stable calendar.  We will provide more
  information by next week.

### Discussion - OGG and Vorbis inclusion
* TSC no objections.

### Discusison - OPen Particle
* https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/19213/files
* Particle System for the editor.
* JT: Docs might be an issue, and there's going to be assumpotions about what a particle
  system must have in order to ship.  Setting community expectations and giving them
  a realistic view of what it is.  Be clear and up front in documentation and release notes.
* If we're unclear and big failed expectations we can expect a lot of complaints. I'll do 
  my best with the docs team.

### Discussion - Multiplayer
* (Multiplayer template fixes listed int he muiltiplayer #sig-network)


