# TSC Meeting - 06/03/2025

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Andre L. A.
* Hellaenergy (Nick) [Red Hat]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_L
* Reece H. [DrogonMar]
* Sid Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Meeting Notes

### Announcement - Release Day!
* Issues with release - starting early
  * This crashes every time on first install.
* Issues with offline install
* Delay by 1 or 2 weeks, 
  
### Discussion 
* Should we delay by 1-2 weeks?
* Jan / Robotec.ai - we had some problem with editor starting too early in the past.
* Jan : What we always did but we have a completely different pipeline, we build assets with cmake as a target
  we workaround by building target assets by building with cmake --target targetname.assets
* No problems next week.

* We are delaying by one week
* Nick_L to fix the startup issue. 

* We are delaying by 2 week.

### DIscussion - Gamelift and the presentations
* Naomi - will you be ready next week?
* Sid: There is no way.  I'll push it back and reconnect with sandeep when he's back and figure out my scedule.
* Sid: This would have to go in my queue
* JOe: We could see if matteo is available and talk about or release process.
* Sid: Can't we move the connect meeting after release?
* Joe: Webinar is about a month out.  
* Joe:  Other option is cancel it.
* Sid:  Fair bit of work has gone into graphics, for this release.  Maybe huawei can talk about all the stuff
  that has been added to it, since so much has gone in?
* Joe:  Never going to say no to it, talking about graphics is very interesting to our users.  We'd probably
  need an answer tomorrow to give Naomi time to adjust scheulde and put out socials.

### Discusstion - JT - Multiplayer sample portability
* working on making it so that people can contribute back to the multiplayer sample via jam
* Industry people here in So Cal love the content.
* Joe:  This is a content jam, getting content creators together.  With a contest and a prize.
* Joe:  We're donating a full computer build for the prize for this. Goal is to increase the quality of the
  multiplayersample and get people familiar with the content generation pipelien of o3de as well
* JT: And bring content cretors into the discord.  External event, we'll pipe people into the discord,
  and these are people who are less likely to engage in the o3de community but more likely to engage with
  the content pipeline.
* JT: their focus is what they do, not what o3de does.  The secondary is to make their stuff available for
  o3de, due to familiarity with the pipeline.

